===============================================
 Downloading and running Pedro for HUPO PPP v1
===============================================

Firstly, click the link on the web page and select Save at
the prompt, or right-click the link and Save the (link) target
from the pop-up menu.

Having successfully downloaded the file PedroForHUPOPPPv1.exe,
navigate to where it was saved, and double-click it to install.
The installer will suggest the root of the C: drive as a default
location.

To run the software, navigate to C:\PedroForHUPOPPPv1\dist\ and
look for the file run_pedro.bat. Double-click this file. If you
did not install to the default location, then navigate to
C:[\yourpath]\PedroForHUPOPPPv1\dist\ to find the file.


==================
 Additional Notes
==================

Guidance is available for all fields - simply select Enable
Context Help from the Help menu on the main menu bar, hover
the mouse cursor over a field name until the icon changes to a
question mark in a box, then left-click. Help is also available
for using the software -- all accessible from the Help menu.

Note that the Pedro software saves and loads files in its own
internal format (.pdz). To generate XML data files for submission,
you should use the Export To XML feature available from the File
menu on the main menu bar. Additionally, if trying to read in an
XML file, you should use the Import From XML feature, also on the
File menu.

For convenience, it may be useful to create a shortcut with which
to run Pedro. To do this, navigate to the file run_pedro.bat, and
right-click it, select Create Shortcut, then drag the shortcut (or
cut and paste it) to wherever is convenient (e.g. the desktop).
Additionally, right-clicking the shortcut and selecting Properties
affords the opportunity to run the DOS command window minimised,
while keeping the software's graphical interface visible, by
selecting Run Minimised.


Chris Taylor (chris@bioinf.man.ac.uk), 15th August 2003

