 <html>
    <head>
      <title>HUPO Proteomics Standards Initiative</title>
    </head>

    <body>
      <a href="http://psidev.sourceforge.net"><img
						   src="../../images/psi.gif" width="113" height="75" border="0" align=left></a>
      <a href="http://www.hupo.org/"><img
					  src="../../images/hupo.gif" width="113" height="75" border="0" align=right></a> 
      <br clear="all">
	<center><h2>Proteomics Standards Initiative</h2>
<h3>Activities during the First HUPO Annual Congress in Versailles, November 21<sup>st</sup> - 24<sup>th</sup>, 2002</h3></center>
<OL>
<LI><h3>Report to HUPO council, Friday, November 22<sup>nd</sup></h3>
The current activities of the Proteomics Standards Initiative were reported to the HUPO council during the council meeting and approved. Referring to the pending publication of the October meeting report in "Computational and Functional Genomics", Samir Hanash encouraged HUPO groups to publish their activities.

<li><h3>PSI group meeting, Saturday, November 23<sup>rd</sup></h3>

A one hour lunchtime session was organised during the conference to both further inform scientists in the field of proteomics of the ongoing initiatives and to elicit support and assistance from future users. The session was opened by Henning Hermjakob (EBI) who gave a short overview of the progress made to date. The need for more input from the mass spectrometry community was highlighted, however delegates were briefed on the EuroSpec Initiative (<a href="http://www.eurospec.org">http://www.eurospec.org</a>) whom the PSI will be approaching with a view to a collaborative effort in this area. A proposal was made to hold a further full meeting of the PSI to be hosted at the EBI on January 21<sup>st</sup>-24<sup>th</sup> 2003. The floor was then thrown open to the audience for comment.
	<p>

Matthias Barth opened the questioning by asking if HUPO could extend the initiative to include standardisation of the annotation and data format for the sample preparation and separation stage, particularly for the handling of 2D gels. It was agreed that this was of high importance but in the face of limited resources, efforts were being concentrated in the areas perceived to be of greatest need. However, should anyone be willing to lead such as initiative, the PSI would give full support.
		<p>

The need to include instrument manufacturers in the early stages of such a process was discussed. Weimin Zhu (EBI) reported a high degree of interest in the process by instrument producers but the proposed meeting in January was too short notice for many of them to attend. A suggestion that the PSI hold a plenary session at the Annual American Society for Mass Spectometry, June 8-12 2003 was well received but it was agreed that the MS group should still meet in January to prepare the field for this.
		  <p>

The role of the NCBI was questioned since they had already shown interest in the standardisation of MS data. Since the inaugural HUPO meeting at which this initiative was launched was held in the NCBI buildings this was not seen as a major issue but it was agreed that they should be approached again to ensure that there was no duplication of effort. 
		    <p>

The issues of accreditation and IP were raised but this is already being dealt with by the NCBI. The wider problem of ensuring that the developers of technologies are given due credit by subsequent users was also seen as being beyond the remit of the PSI. 
		      <p>

How small labs would benefit from standardisation of MS data was discussed. The need for both a submission/indexing service and simple querying tools was agreed upon with a central public repository being seen as the ideal situation but a web-based tool with a unified query interface being an acceptable interim solution. It was again agreed that a mandatory submission process prior to publication would be required and the cooperation of journals should be sought when such systems were in place. Any such systems should include space to add comments and manual annotation to data, as well as error rates and statistical variation, since this would add value to any entry.
			<p>

The meeting was brought to a close at this point, due to time constraints, with a further appeal for support and input from all participants.

	    <hr>
	      <address>
		Sandra Orchard, Henning Hermjakob, <a
				      href="mailto:hhe@ebi.ac.uk">hhe@ebi.ac.uk</a>, November 26, 2002
	      </address>
    </body>
  </html>
  